.Dd June 28, 2020
.Dt CUTECHESS-CLI 6
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm cutechess-cli
.Nd Automate chess engine tournaments
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl engine Ar engine-options
.Fl engine Ar engine-options
.Op Fl engine Ar engine-options ...
.Op options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility automates chess engine tournaments.
.Pp
Its options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl engine Ar engine-options
Add an engine defined by
.Ar engine-options
to the tournament.
See
.Sx Engine Options .
.It Fl each Ar engine-options
Apply
.Ar engine-options
to each engine in the tournament.
See
.Sx Engine Options .
.It Fl variant Ar variant
Set the chess variant, where
.Ar variant
is one of:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "XXXXXXXXXXXXX" -offset ident -compact
.It 3check
Three-check Chess
.It 5check
Five-check Chess
.It ai-wok
Ai-Wok (Makruk variant)
.It almost
Almost Chess
.It amazon
Amazon Chess
.It andernach
Andernach Chess
.It antiandernach
Anti-Andernach Chess
.It antichess
Antichess / Losing Chess
.It asean
ASEAN-Chess
.It atomic
Atomic Chess
.It berolina
Berolina Chess
.It cambodian
Ouk Chatrang (Cambodian Chess)
.It capablanca
Capablanca Chess
.It caparandom
Capablanca Random Chess
.It cfour
Cfour (7x6, line up 4 to win)
.It chancellor
Chancellor Chess (9x9)
.It changeover
Change-Over Chess
.It checkless
Checkless Chess
.It chessgi
Chessgi / Drop Chess
.It chigorin
Chigorin Chess
.It circulargryphon
Circular Gryphon Chess
.It codrus
Game of Codrus (Losing Chess Variant)
.It coregal
Co-regal Chess
.It courier
Courier Chess (Medieval)
.It crazyhouse
Crazyhouse (Drop Chess Variant)
.It displacedgrid
Displaced Grid Chess
.It dobutsu
Dobutsu Shogi (3x4)
.It embassy
Embassy Chess
.It euroshogi
EuroShogi (8x8)
.It extinction
Extinction Chess
.It fischerandom
Fischer Random Chess / Chess 960
.It giveaway
Giveaway Chess (Losing Chess)
.It gomoku
Gomoku (15x15, exactly 5 in a row to win)
.It gomokufreestyle
Gomoku Free-Style (5 in a row to win)
.It gothic
Gothic Chess
.It grand
Grand Chess
.It grid
Grid Chess
.It gridolina
Berolina Grid Chess
.It gryphon
Gryphon Chess
.It gustav3
Gustav III's Chess
.It hoppelpoppel
Hoppel-Poppel (has N/B hybrids)
.It horde
Horde Chess (v2)
.It janus
Janus Chess
.It jesonmor
Jeson Mör
.It judkins
Judkins Shogi (6x6)
.It karouk
Kar Ouk (One-check Ouk)
.It kinglet
Kinglet Chess
.It kingofthehill
King of the Hill Chess
.It knightmate
Knightmate
.It knightrelay
Knight-Relay Chess
.It loop
Loop Chess (Drop Chess Variant)
.It losalamos
Los Alamos Chess
.It losers
Loser's Chess
.It makruk
Makruk (Thai Chess)
.It minishogi
Minishogi (5x5)
.It modern
Modern Chess (9x9)
.It newzealand
New Zealand Chess  (has N/R hybrids)
.It placement
Placement Chess
.It pocketknight
Pocket Knight Chess
.It racingkings
Racing Kings Chess
.It rifle
Rifle Chess
.It seirawan
S-Chess (Seirawan Chess)
.It shatranj
Shatranj
.It shogi
Shogi
.It shoot
Shoot Chess
.It simplifiedgryphon
Simplified Gryphon Chess
.It sittuyin
Sittuyin (Myanmar Chess)
.It slippedgrid
Slipped Grid Chess
.It suicide
Suicide Chess (Losing Chess Variant)
.It superandernach
Super-Andernach Chess
.It threekings
Three Kings Chess
.It tictactoe
Tic-tac-toe
.It twokings
Two Kings Each Chess (Wild 9)
.It twokingssymmetric
Symmetrized Wild 9
.It standard
Standard Chess (default)
.El
.It Fl concurrency Ar n
Set the maximum number of concurrent games to
.Ar n .
.It Fl draw Cm movenumber Ns = Ns Ar number Cm movecount Ns = Ns Ar count Cm score Ns = Ns Ar score
Adjudicate the game as draw if the score of both engines is within
.Ar score
centipawns from zero for at least
.Ar count
consecutive moves, and at least
.Ar number
full moves have been played.
Captures and pawn moves will reset the counters.
.It Fl resign Cm movecount Ns = Ns Ar count Cm score Ns = Ns Ar score Bq Cm twosided Ns = Ns Ar value
Adjudicate the game as a loss if an engine's score is at least
.Ar score
centipawns below zero for at least
.Ar count
consecutive moves.
If
.Ar value
is true (default: false) then activate two-sided resign adjudication.
The winning side's scores must be at least
.Ar score
centipawns above zero for at least
.Ar count
consecutive moves
.It Fl maxmoves Ar n
Adjudicate the game as a draw if at least
.Ar n
full moves have been played without result.
Ignored if
.Ar n
equals zero (default).
.It Fl tb Ar paths
Adjudicate games using Syzygy tablebases.
.Ar Paths
should be semicolon-delimited list of paths to the compressed tablebase files.
Only the WDL tablebase files are required.
.It Fl tbpieces Ar N
Only use tablebase adjudication for positions with
.Ar N
pieces or less.
.It Fl tbignore50
Disable the fifty move rule for tablebase adjudication.
.It Fl tournament Ar type
Set the tournament type, where
.Ar type
is one of:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "XXXXXXXXXXXXX" -offset ident -compact
.It round-robin
Round-robin tournament (default)
.It gauntlet
First engine(s) against the rest
.It knockout
Single-elimination tournament
.It pyramid
Every engine plays against all of its predecessors
.El
.It Fl event Ar arg
Set the event name to
.Ar arg .
.It Fl games Ar n
Play
.Ar n
games per encounter.
This value should be set to an even number in tournaments with more than two
players to make sure that each player plays an equal number of games with white
and black pieces.
.It Fl rounds Ar n
Multiply the number of rounds to play by
.Ar n .
For two-player tournaments this option should be used to set the total
number of games to play.
.It Fl sprt Cm elo0 Ns = Ns Ar E0 Cm elo1 Ns = Ns Ar E1 Cm alpha Ns = Ns Ar \(*a Cm beta Ns = Ns Ar \(*b
Use a Sequential Probability Ratio Test as a termination criterion for the
match.
.Pp
This option should only be used in matches between two players to test if
engine P1 is stronger than engine P2.
Hypothesis H1 is that P1 is stronger than P2 by at least
.Ar E0
ELO points, and
H0 (the null hypothesis) is that P1 is not stronger than P2 by at least
.Ar E1
ELO points.
The maximum probabilities for type I and type II errors outside the
interval [
.Ar E0 ,
.Ar E1
] are
.Ar \(*a
and
.Ar \(*b .
.Pp
The match is stopped if either H0 or H1 is accepted or if the maximum number
of games set by
.Fl rounds
and / or
.Fl games
is reached.
.It Fl ratinginterval Ar n
Set the interval for printing the ratings to
.Ar n
games.
.It Fl outcomeinterval Ar n
Set the interval for printing outcomes to
.Ar n
games.
.It Fl debug
Display all engine input and output.
.It Fl openings Cm file Ns = Ns Ar file Cm format Ns = Ns Bo Cm epd | Cm pgn Ns Bc Cm order Ns = Ns Bo Cm random | Cm sequential Bc Cm plies Ns = Ns Ar plies Cm start Ns = Ns Ar start Cm policy Ns = Ns Bo Cm default | Cm encounter | Cm round Bc
Pick game openings from
.Ar file .
The file can be either in
.Cm epd
(Extended Position Description) or
.Cm pgn
(Portable Game Notation) format.
The default format is
.Cm pgn .
Openings can be picked in
.Cm random
or
.Cm sequential
(default) order.
The opening depth is limited to
.Ar plies
number of plies.
If
.Ar plies
is not set the opening depth is unlimited.
In sequential mode
.Ar start
is the number of the first opening that will be played.
The minimum value for
.Ar start
is 1 (default).
.Pp
The value of
.Ar policy
rules when to shift to a new opening.
If set to
.Cm encounter
a new opening is used for any new pair of players,
.Cm round
shifts when a new round begins.
The
.Cm default
shifts for any new pair of players and also when the
specified number of opening repetitions is reached.
.It Fl bookmode Ar mode
Set Polyglot book access mode, where
.Ar mode
is either
.Cm ram
(the whole book is loaded into RAM) or
.Cm disk
(the book is accessed directly on disk).
The default mode is
.Cm ram .
.It Fl pgnout Ar file Bo Cm min Bc Bo Cm fi Bc
Save the games to
.Ar file
in PGN format.
Use the
.Cm min
argument to save in a minimal PGN format.
Only finished games will be saved if argument
.Cm fi
is given.
.It Fl epdout Ar file
Save the games to
.Ar file
in FEN format.
.It Fl recover
Restart crashed engines instead of stopping the game.
.It Fl repeat Bq Ar n
Play each opening twice (or
.Ar n
times).
Unless the
.Fl noswap
option is used, the players swap sides after each game.
So they get to play the opening on both sides.
Please note that a new encounter will use a new opening.
.It Fl noswap
Do not swap sides of paired engines.
.It Fl reverse
Use schedule with reverse sides.
.It Fl seeds Ar n
Set the first
.Ar n
engines as seeds in the tournament.
The default is 0.
.It Fl site Ar arg
Set the site / location to
.Ar arg .
.It Fl srand Ar seed
Set the random seed for the book move selector.
.It Fl wait Ar n
Wait
.Ar n
milliseconds between games.
The default is 0.
.It Fl resultformat Ar format
Specify the
.Ar format
of result lists.
.Ar Format
can either be a comma separated list of fields or a format name.
Format
.Cm help
shows available named formats.
The
.Cm default
format lists rank, name, elo, elo error, number of games,
score percentage, and draw percentage of every player.
.It Fl version
Display the version information.
.It Fl help
Display help information.
.It Fl engines
Display a list of configured engines and exit.
.El
.Ss Engine Options
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ic conf Ns = Ns Ar arg
Use an engine with the name
.Ar arg
from engine configuration file.
.It Ic name Ns = Ns Ar arg
Set the name to
.Ar arg .
.It Ic cmd Ns = Ns Ar arg
Set the command to
.Ar arg .
.It Ic dir Ns = Ns Ar arg
Set the working directory to
.Ar arg .
.It Ic stderr Ns = Ns Ar arg
Redirect standard error output to file
.Ar arg .
.It Ic proto Ns = Ns Bq Cm uci | Cm xboard
Set the chess protocol.
.It Ic tc Ns = Ns Bq Ar tcformat | Cm inf
Set the time control.
The format is moves/time+increment,
where
.Ar moves
is the number of moves per tc,
.Ar time
is time per tc (either seconds or minutes:seconds),
and
.Ar increment
is the time increment per move in seconds.
.Pp
Infinite time control can be set with
.Cm inf .
.It Ic option\&. Ns Ar name Ns = Ns Ar value
Set custom engine option.
.It Ic arg Ns = Ns Ar arg
Pass
.Ar arg
to the engine as a command line argument.
.It Ic initstr Ns = Ns Ar arg
Send
.Ar arg
to the engine's standard input at startup.
.It Ic restart Ns = Ns Bq Cm auto | Cm on | Cm off
Set the engine restart mode.
.Cm auto
means the engine decides whether to restart (default),
.Cm on
means the engine is always restarted between games and
.Cm off
means the engine is never restarted between games.
Setting this option does not prevent engines from being restarted between
rounds in a tournament featuring more than two engines.
.It Ic trust
Trust result claims from the engine without validation.
By default all claims are validated.
.It Ic st Ns = Ns Ar n
Set the time limit for each move to
.Ar n
seconds.
This option cannot be used in combination with the
.Ic tc
option.
.It Ic timemargin Ns = Ns Ar n
Let engines go
.Ar n
milliseconds over the time limit.
.It Ic book Ns = Ns Ar file
Use
.Ar file
(Polyglot book file) as the opening book.
.It Ic bookdepth Ns = Ns Ar n
Set the maximum book depth (in fullmoves) to
.Ar n .
.It Ic whitepov
Invert the engine's scores when it plays black.
This option should be used with engines that always report scores from white's
perspective.
.It Ic ponder
Enable pondering if the engine supports it.
.It Ic depth Ns = Ns Ar plies
Set the search depth limit.
.It Ic nodes Ns = Ns Ar count
Set the node count limit.
.It Ic tscale Ns = Ns Ar factor
Scale engine timeouts by
.Ar factor .
Only use this option if necessary.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Play ten games between two Sloppy engines with a time control of 40
moves in 60 seconds:
.Pp
.Dl $ cutechess-cli \-engine cmd=sloppy -engine cmd=sloppy -each proto=xboard tc=40/60 -rounds 10
.Pp
Play a single game between Atak and Glaurung engines with a time
control of 40 moves in one minute and 30 seconds with one second
increment:
.Pp
.Dl $ cutechess-cli \-engine name=Atak cmd=Atak32.exe dir=C:\eatak proto=xboard -engine cmd=glaurung proto=uci option.Threads=1 -each tc=40/1:30+1
.Bl -bullet
.It
Use the name=Atak parameter because it's a Xboard protocol 1 engine
and doesn't tell its name.
.It
Use the dir=C:\eatak parameter to point the location of the executable.
.It
Glaurung can tell its name and is in the PATH variable so only the
command is needed.
.It
Set Glaurung to use 1 thread.
.It
Set the time control to 40 moves in one minute and 30 seconds with
one second increment.
.El
.Pp
Play a Round-Robin tournament between Fruit, Crafty, Stockfish and
Sloppy:
.Pp
.Dl $ cutechess-cli \-engine conf=Fruit -engine conf=Crafty -engine conf=Stockfish -engine conf=Sloppy -each tc=4 book=book.bin -games 2 -rounds 10 -repeat
.Bl -bullet
.It
Play two games per encounter,
effectively multiplying the number of games by 2.
.It
Play 10 times the minimum amount of rounds (3). So the total number
of rounds to play will be 30, and the total number of games 120.
.It
In each two-game encounter colors are switched between games and the
same opening line is played in both games.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cutechess-engines.json 5
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
utility was written by
.An Ilari Pihlajisto ,
.An Arto Jonsson
and contributors.
See the project page for more details.
.Sh RESOURCES
.Bl -bullet
.It
Project page:
.Lk http://github.com/cutechess/cutechess
.El
